content/about.en.md, before:

+++
title = "Hi, I'm Marco and I (Still) Want to Learn"
date = 2026-01-17
+++

At 54, after decades spent writing code in C, C++, and Python, I could think I've seen everything in the world of programming. But no. A few years ago, I stumbled upon Rust and... I fell in love.

It wasn't love at first sight, let me be clear. Rust challenges you, forces you to think differently about memory management, concurrency, and code safety. But it was precisely this challenge that reignited that spark I felt the first time I wrote a program.

## The Year 2000 and My "Initiation" into Unix

Let me tell you a story. It was 2000, I came from the DOS/Windows world like practically everyone else, and I was assigned to a project that used Unix servers. My toolkit? The basic commands to navigate folders (`cd`, `ls`...) that I used when connecting via FTP (the "s" in front of FTP wasn't even a thing back then).

Then came the time to edit files. And that's when I discovered **vi**.

For someone used to "classic" visual editors, it was traumatic. Literally. I had two choices: get moved to another project or learn to live in that environment. I chose the latter.

I installed Mandrake (a Red Hat derivative) in dual boot and a new adventure began. An adventure that has never ended.

## GNU/Linux: From Necessity to Passion

Today I mainly use **GNU/Linux**, specifically **Ubuntu**. For several years I was a moderator of the Italian Ubuntu community site - an incredible experience that taught me so much about the value of knowledge sharing. Then professional and personal commitments increased and I unfortunately had to step away from the community, but not from the distribution. Linux remains my preferred choice for programming, I can't do without it.

Sure, I also love photography, and for that reason I've alternated between Linux and a Mac for years (initially due to a lack of valid alternatives). Maybe it's the terminal, but that experience that was supposed to be relegated to the photography world, I never abandoned. Today I alternate between Mac and Linux, but when I write code, I always come back home: to Linux.

And that vi that terrified me in 2000? It became Vim, then NeoVim, and is now one of the tools I could never give up. Funny how things turn around.

## Why This Blog (and the YouTube Channel)?

Because explaining something is the best way to truly understand it. I started creating content about Rust for beginners, starting from the assumption that if I - with all my C/C++ background - found some concepts difficult, I'm probably not alone.

On my [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL75yUkG-fXnv0fkK0zNgsU8malexOdCsp) you'll find a complete Rust course for those starting from scratch, but also tutorials on tools I use daily: Vim/NeoVim (yes, I'm one of those who can't stop using it, and now you understand why) and Git.

## What Will You Find Here?

- Tutorials and explanations on **Rust**, from basic level to more advanced concepts
- Practical guides on **Vim/NeoVim** and **Git** (tools I learned "in the field")
- Deep dives into **GNU/Linux** and development workflows
- Comparisons between different programming approaches
- Mistakes I've made (so you won't make them)

## Who Is This Blog For?

This space is for you if:

- You're curious about **Rust** but don't know where to start
- You want to improve your workflow with **Vim/NeoVim** and **Git**
- You use or want to use **GNU/Linux** for development
- You believe age is just a number when it comes to learning
- You've experienced (or are experiencing) a technological transition that scares you

## My Philosophy

I believe in learning by doing and sharing what you learn. I'm not a **guru**, I'm a developer who after many years still hungers for knowledge. I learned `vi` because I had no choice, I embraced Linux because it opened up a world to me, and today I'm learning Rust because it challenges me.

And if I can make the journey easier for someone else by sharing the obstacles I've overcome and those I'm still overcoming, all the better.

Welcome to my digital space. I hope you enjoy being here as much as I enjoy writing it.

**Marco**

---

## Where to Find Me

- 📺 [YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@IlCodicediMarco) - Complete Rust course + tutorials on Vim and Git
- 🐘 [Mastodon](https://mastodon.uno/@marcobollero) - Follow me on the fediverse
- 🐦 [X](https://x.com/marcobollero) - Quick updates and thoughts
- 💻 [GitHub](https://github.com/marc0x71) - My projects and code

---

*This article was translated using AI.*

Commit message:

Add: MIT license for code and CC BY 4.0 for content

content/about.en.md, after:

+++
title = "Hi, I'm Marco and I (Still) Want to Learn"
date = 2026-01-17
+++

At 54, after decades spent writing code in C, C++, and Python, I could think I've seen everything in the world of programming. But no. A few years ago, I stumbled upon Rust and... I fell in love.

It wasn't love at first sight, let me be clear. Rust challenges you, forces you to think differently about memory management, concurrency, and code safety. But it was precisely this challenge that reignited that spark I felt the first time I wrote a program.

## The Year 2000 and My "Initiation" into Unix

Let me tell you a story. It was 2000, I came from the DOS/Windows world like practically everyone else, and I was assigned to a project that used Unix servers. My toolkit? The basic commands to navigate folders (`cd`, `ls`...) that I used when connecting via FTP (the "s" in front of FTP wasn't even a thing back then).

Then came the time to edit files. And that's when I discovered **vi**.

For someone used to "classic" visual editors, it was traumatic. Literally. I had two choices: get moved to another project or learn to live in that environment. I chose the latter.

I installed Mandrake (a Red Hat derivative) in dual boot and a new adventure began. An adventure that has never ended.

## GNU/Linux: From Necessity to Passion

Today I mainly use **GNU/Linux**, specifically **Ubuntu**. For several years I was a moderator of the Italian Ubuntu community site - an incredible experience that taught me so much about the value of knowledge sharing. Then professional and personal commitments increased and I unfortunately had to step away from the community, but not from the distribution. Linux remains my preferred choice for programming, I can't do without it.

Sure, I also love photography, and for that reason I've alternated between Linux and a Mac for years (initially due to a lack of valid alternatives). Maybe it's the terminal, but that experience that was supposed to be relegated to the photography world, I never abandoned. Today I alternate between Mac and Linux, but when I write code, I always come back home: to Linux.

And that vi that terrified me in 2000? It became Vim, then NeoVim, and is now one of the tools I could never give up. Funny how things turn around.

## Why This Blog (and the YouTube Channel)?

Because explaining something is the best way to truly understand it. I started creating content about Rust for beginners, starting from the assumption that if I - with all my C/C++ background - found some concepts difficult, I'm probably not alone.

On my [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL75yUkG-fXnv0fkK0zNgsU8malexOdCsp) you'll find a complete Rust course for those starting from scratch, but also tutorials on tools I use daily: Vim/NeoVim (yes, I'm one of those who can't stop using it, and now you understand why) and Git.

## What Will You Find Here?

- Tutorials and explanations on **Rust**, from basic level to more advanced concepts
- Practical guides on **Vim/NeoVim** and **Git** (tools I learned "in the field")
- Deep dives into **GNU/Linux** and development workflows
- Comparisons between different programming approaches
- Mistakes I've made (so you won't make them)

## Who Is This Blog For?

This space is for you if:

- You're curious about **Rust** but don't know where to start
- You want to improve your workflow with **Vim/NeoVim** and **Git**
- You use or want to use **GNU/Linux** for development
- You believe age is just a number when it comes to learning
- You've experienced (or are experiencing) a technological transition that scares you

## My Philosophy

I believe in learning by doing and sharing what you learn. I'm not a **guru**, I'm a developer who after many years still hungers for knowledge. I learned `vi` because I had no choice, I embraced Linux because it opened up a world to me, and today I'm learning Rust because it challenges me.

And if I can make the journey easier for someone else by sharing the obstacles I've overcome and those I'm still overcoming, all the better.

Welcome to my digital space. I hope you enjoy being here as much as I enjoy writing it.

**Marco**

---

## AI Usage Policy

Some content on this blog may be created with AI assistance (ChatGPT, Claude for example) for:
- Grammar and clarity improvements
- Translation between languages
- Brainstorming and outlining

All opinions and technical insights are my own. AI is used as a tool, not as the author.

---

## Where to Find Me

- 📺 [YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@IlCodicediMarco) - Complete Rust course + tutorials on Vim and Git
- 🐘 [Mastodon](https://mastodon.uno/@marcobollero) - Follow me on the fediverse
- 🐦 [X](https://x.com/marcobollero) - Quick updates and thoughts
- 💻 [GitHub](https://github.com/marc0x71) - My projects and code

---

*This article was translated using AI.*
